>> Brian Holt: But I wanna take
a step back for just a second and
talk about how React is
actually rendering this, right?
So I'm gonna type in here,
I'll hit the D key, so I type D.
An event happens, right?
So React actually catches
that at a top level and
says an event happening,
something must have changed.
I'm gonna kick off a rerender, right?
So it goes through, it runs rerender
on your entire application,
again this why your render
methods are really important.
They need to be fast because
every time that I type,
it's rerendering your entire application,
right?
So I type that.
It kicks off the re-render.
And it gets to this carousel component,
right?
And it's saying.
It's saying, not carousel sorry,
the SearchParams page.
It goes to the SearchParams page.
And it goes through render this input and
it says hey this input is
tied to this.state.location.
Well what is this.state.location?
It's still Seattle Washington despite
the fact that I typed in there nothing
changed it right?
So because nothing's changed it,
it stays Seattle, Washington.
You actually need to go and
change it yourself or
it forever will stay that right?
In other words what I'm trying to say
here is two way data binding is not free
in React.
And people get a little frustrated with
especially coming from things like
Angular right?
Where it is free,
where it can be free, same with Ember.
It's not free in React and
I say this is a feature.
And I feel pretty strongly
about this which is why I'm
pounding on the podium which
I don't wanna to break.
[LAUGH] I feel strongly about this because
two way data binding can be magical,
right?
The first time that you write down
in Angular it just like has this
magical moment it's like I didn't have
to write all the wiring for this.
I've been writing back bone for years and
you have to wire that stuff up and
it's not fun, right?
Whereas as you do it in Angular it's
you're just say, this is bound to that and
it just works.
But when that stuff falls apart, whenever
you have like filters or masks and
things on these kind of things.
It quickly becomes,
where did this change happen?
How did this change?
How do I break this, right?
It becomes very, very,
opaque and hard to debug.
I'm very passionate about debugging things
because I break things all the time.
So, I spend about three-quarters of my
life debugging things that I have built.
[LAUGH] So,
I'm very much optimize on that side and
on maintainability rather then
on the side of writing it fast.
I will spend three times
longer writing something,
if I get to spend far less time
maintaining it in the future.
So, we have to go in here and
write this handler ourselves.
And it's not very difficult,
it's pretty easy to do.
So let's go and actually fix that.
>> Brian Holt: We're gonna
do handleLocationChange, and
it's gonna be the same thing.
It's going to be an arrow function.
And we're gonna say this.setState.
Location is event.target.value.
Right, this, again,
event.target.value is going to be whatever
is the value of that input is, okay?
And then here we're gonna say
onChange=.
Something people ask me is do I have
to call it handleLocationChange?
No, you can call it whatever you want,
as long as this and this are the same.
However, pro tip from me from
writing React from such a long time,
I like to put all my handle on
the front of all my event handlers.
So at one glance I can see down here,
this is an event handler.
Or if I come up here it's like,
this is meant to handle events.
So handle to me means you're gonna
get an event as a parameter.
And actually I can say, handleLocation.
So I know it's gonna handle some sort
of like something to do with location.
And it's handling a change event, right?
Change down here.
So I can just look at the method name and
instantly know what it does and
where it's coming from and
why it's getting run.
>> Brian Holt: So
it's very very useful for
code organization in my opinion,
to do it this way.
Questions?
Yeah.
>> off screen male: When you
were typing in the inout box,
you said that it detected
the change in cold rendering it.
Is it doing that as just part
of typing in the input box,
and React magically knows that, or
is it because that state is tied to
the input box and
it knows it has to watch the state?
>> Brian Holt: That's
a really good question.
The way that it knows is because,
React rendered this, right?
So, physically the actual
mechanics of how this is working.
If I go into inspect element here
React is rendering everything
underneath root, right?
So it actually binds one event listener
for the entire application here at root.
So any event that bubbles up to root,
React catches.
Whenever it has an event,
it knows I've got to re-render stuff.
So this is actually one
performance optimization.
Again, you don't actually
really have to care.
This might change in the future if
they find a better way of doing it.
But every time you put event lists here
and all that kind of stuff up here,
React is only using one event handler and
it's at root.
Did I answer your question?
>> off screen male: Yes.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
>> Brian Holt: Event bubbling and
event delegation,
two other things that you should
definitely learn a lot about.
That's another favorite
interview question.
So I think that should work now and
it does.
So now, if I type in here Seattle,
WA, it's all working.
And if go in here with the DevTools,
Inspect Element and
head over to React,
>> Brian Holt: So
I can go up here to SearchParams
which is the entire route, right?
And you can see here I have Seattle,
Washington.
I can actually go in here and
say, Salt Lake City comma UT, and
if I hit enter,
you'll notice on the left it will change.
So I can actually manipulate
the state from here as well and
it will instantly be
reflected here on the route.
>> Brian Holt: Pretty cool, right?
>> Brian Holt: So, in other words,
you can be confident that now whatever is
reflected into this location,
is actually what's in the state.
Going back to our React.
>> Brian Holt: And
I go here to the search params,
watch over here on the right
where it says state.
>> Brian Holt: So, you can actually see
it changing in real time in the dev tools
as well.
Sometimes it's even useful, you don't
have to copy this, I'm just showing you.
But I could just put underneath
here instead of location I can
put this.state.location, like that.
And I'm just dumping out
that state right there.
You can see it says
Seattle Washington right now, but
I can change this to be whatever
I want it to be, right.
And, it's just instantly reflect how to
the DOM because every time that it calls
re-render right, it's just dumping
out that state right there.
So, those two are now always
going to be tight together.
Pretty cool, right?
So again,
this is not free two-way data binding, but
it's real easy two-way data binding.
>> Brian Holt: Question.
>> off screen male: If you're looking to
do, like, currency, would that be handled
in the handle location event or
would you do that separate?
>> Brian Holt: Currency?
>> off screen male: Like if you wanted to
format a number to currency, on change?
>> Brian Holt: I would probably
do that in the render method.
I would keep the actual amount
inside of my state, and
then on the render I would do all
the formatting to render it correctly.
Yeah, I mean there are some caveats there,
it might be useful to get a direct
statement from props,
there are some things they could do,
depending on how intensive and
how much you have to do.
But in general, minor formatting of
staking a dot in there like some commas
and stuff like that usually not too bad.
>> Brian Holt: Or, let me see if I
can rephrase that to a better answer.
Do the simplest and
most readable thing first.
Then, when you have performance problems,
optimize later.
Always, always error on the side
of maintainability, readability.
And then,
when you have performance problems first
before you solve performance problems.
It's in general my advice.